# Error, Exceptions and File Handling

## Errors and Exceptions
Errors and exceptions are issues that arise during the execution of a program, preventing it from running as expected.

## Syntax Error
Occurs when the code violates the rules of Python language. Common syntax errors are detected during the parsing phase before the code is executed.

## Exceptions
Exceptions are run time errors that occur during the execution of a program. This error may arise from various reasons, such as division by zero, accessing the index that is out of range, trying to open non-existing file, etc.

**Exception Handling**
Python provides a try-except block to handle exceptions.

**try Block:** A try block is used to enclose a section of code where exceptions may occur. The purpose of the try block is to monitor for runtime errors or exceptional situations.

**except Block:** The except block is executed if an exception occurs within the corresponding try block. It specifies how to handle or respond to specific types of exceptions.

```
def divide_by(a,b):
    try:
        print(a/b)
    except:
        print('Something went wrong!')

divide_by(50,5)
divide_by(40,0)
```
```
items = [1,2,3,4,5]
try:
    item = items[6]
    print(item)
except Exception as e:
    print(f"Item does not exist in the list, Error:  {e}")
```
```
def divide_by(a, b):
    return a / b


try:
    ans = divide_by(40, 0)
    print(ans)
except:
    print('0')
```
```
try:
    with open('file_does_not_exist.txt', 'r') as file:
        print(file.read())
except:
    print('Something went wrong!')
```

 
## Opening a File
Before we can perform an operation on a file, we must open it first. Python provides the open() function to open a file. 

It takes two arguments:
1. The name of the file.
2. The mode in which the file should be opened 

**Modes in File**
1. ‘r’ for reading in text mode.
2. ‘rb’ for reading in binary mode.
3. ‘w’ for writing (Truncate and create if the file does not exist).
4. ‘a’ for writing (append to the end if the file is exist).
5. ‘r+’ for both reading and writing.
6. ‘w+’ for both reading and writing (Truncate and create if the file does not exist).
7. ‘a+’ for both reading and writing (Append to the end if the file is exist).


**With Statement**
With statement is commonly used in python to open and work with files. It ensures that file is properly opened and closed, even if exception occurs during the file operations.

```
with open('my_test.txt', 'w') as f:
    f.write('Hi John, How are you?')

with open('my_test.txt', 'a') as f:
    f.write('Where were you brother?')

with open('my_test.txt', 'r') as f:
    text = f.read()

print(text)
```
