# Programming Paradigm
A programming paradigm is a fundamental style or approach to programming that dictates how programmer organize and structure code to solve problem.


## Types of Programming Paradigms

1. **Imperative Programming Paradigms:** A programming paradigm that focuses on describing a sequence of step to achieve a specific goal or perform a task.

2. **Declarative Programming Paradigms:** A programming paradigms that emphasizes describing “what” a program should accomplish, rather than specifying “how” to achieve it through a sequence of detailed steps. 


## Types of Imperative Programming Paradigms

Imperative programming divided into three broader categories; these paradigms are as followings:

1. **Procedural Programing Paradigms**
Procedural programming is a programming paradigm or style that focuses on writing code as a series of procedure or functions.

2. **Object Oriented Paradigms**
In this paradigm, a program is designed and structured as collection of objects, each of which represents a real world entity or concept.

3. **Parallel Processing Approach**
Parallel processing is an approach to computing where multiple tasks or processes are executed simultaneously.



## Types of Declarative Programming Paradigms

Declarative Programming Paradigms have been divided into three broader categories; these paradigms are as following:

1. **Logical Programming Paradigms**
Logical programming is a programming paradigm that is based on formal logic and mathematical reasoning.

2. **Functional Programming Paradigms**
Functional programming is a programming paradigm that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematic functions and avoid changing states and mutable data.

3. **Database Processing Approach**
Database processing, often referred to as database management or data processing, is the systematic approach to storing, retrieving, manipulating and managing the data with in a database.


## Purpose of a Programming Model
The main purpose of a programming model is structuring your code. That structure makes it easier to update the code and create new functionality within the code.

